SR-15910: C++ Interop Getting Started Documentation (#41580)
swiftlang/swift: docs/CppInteropability/GettingStartedWithC++Interop.md

#  Getting started with C++ Interoperability

This document is desgined to get you started with bidirectional API-level interoperability between Swift and C++.

## Table of Contents

- [Creating a Module to contain your C++ source code](#creating-a-module-to-contain-your-c-source-code)
- [Adding C++ to an Xcode project](#adding-c-to-an-xcode-project)
- [Creating a Swift Package](#Creating-a-Swift-Package)
- [Building with CMake](#building-with-cmake)

## Creating a Module to contain your C++ source code

- Create a new C++ implementation and header file
- For this example we will call the files Cxx, so we should have a Cxx.cpp and Cxx.hpp.
- Next create an empty file and call it `module.modulemap`, in this file create the module for your source code, and define your C++ header (`requires cplusplus` isn't required but it's convention for C++ modules, especially if they use C++ features).
```
//In module.modulemap
module Cxx {
    //note that your header should be the file that containts your method implementations

>     header "Cxx.cpp

Reviewer: Nit: `"Cxx.cpp"`

Reviewer: Also, this should be the header file: `Cxx.hpp`.

Author: Ah yep, thank you!

Reviewer: Sorry, I should have clarified. My original comment was about the quotation mark. There needs to be a closing quote.

Author: I really appreciate all the support! Stoked that i can contribute

Reviewer: For sure. Thank you for contributing!

- Next create an empty file and call it `module.modulemap`, in this file create the module for your source code, and define your C++ header (`requires cplusplus` isn't required but it's convention for C++ modules, especially if they use C++ features).

```
//In module.modulemap
module Cxx {
    //note that your header should be the file that containts your method implementations
    header "Cxx.hpp"
    requires cplusplus
}
```

- Move the newly created files (Cxx.cpp, Cxx.hpp, module.modulemap) into a separate directory (this should remain in your project directory)

<img width="252" alt="Screen Shot 2022-02-26 at 9 14 06 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/62521716/155867937-9d9d6c62-4418-414d-bc4e-5d12c2055022.png">

## Adding C++ to an Xcode project
- In your xcode project, follow the steps [Creating a Module to contain your C++ source code](#creating-a-module-to-contain-your-c-source-code) in your project directory

Add the C++ module to the include path and enable C++ interop:
- Navigate to your project directory 
- In `Project` navigate to `Build Settings` -> `Swift Compiler`
- Under `Custom Flags` -> `Other Swift Flags` add`-Xfrontend -enable-cxx-interop`

> - Under `Search Paths` -> `Import Paths` add your search path to the C++ module (i.e, `./ProjectName/Cxx`).

Author: Question: here i found that adding `-Xfrontend -enable-cxx-interop` to the `Targert` produced a lot of erros, however i still needed to add `./ProjectName/Cxx` to the `Import Paths`

is this expected?

If so i was thinking of updating to line 38:
- Under `Search Paths` -> `Import Paths` add your search path to the C++ module (i.e, `./ProjectName/Cxx`). Repeat this step in `Other Swift Flags`

Reviewer: Sounds good to me. You can also do this as a follow up PR if you want, since the tests are almost finished. Whatever you'd rather.

Author: Cool cool, i will opt for an additional PR lol

#  Getting started with C++ Interoperability

This document is desgined to get you started with bidirectional API-level interoperability between Swift and C++.

## Table of Contents

- [Creating a Module to contain your C++ source code](#creating-a-module-to-contain-your-c-source-code)
- [Adding C++ to an Xcode project](#adding-c-to-an-xcode-project)
- [Creating a Swift Package](#Creating-a-Swift-Package)
- [Building with CMake](#building-with-cmake)

## Creating a Module to contain your C++ source code

- Create a new C++ implementation and header file
- For this example we will call the files Cxx, so we should have a Cxx.cpp and Cxx.hpp.
- Create a module.modulemap file to expose your source code 

> - In order to expose our C++ code we must designate a separate as the source.

Reviewer: This is confusing to me. Do you mean a separate file? Or module map?

Author: Oh yep, i see

> - Create an empty file and call it `module.modulemap`

Reviewer: This and line 16 seem redundant. Maybe they could be joined. I'm not sure you need line 17.

- In this file create the module for your source code, and define your C++ header (`requires cplusplus` isn't required but it's convention for C++ modules, especially if they use C++ features).
```
//In module.modulemap
module Cxx {
    //note that your header should be the file that containts your method implementations
    header "Cxx.cpp
    requires cplusplus
}
```
- Move the newly created files (Cxx.cpp, Cxx.hpp, module.modulemap) into a separate directory (this should remain in your project directory)

<img width="252" alt="Screen Shot 2022-02-26 at 9 14 06 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/62521716/155867937-9d9d6c62-4418-414d-bc4e-5d12c2055022.png">

## Adding C++ to an Xcode project
- In your xcode project, follow the steps [Creating a Module to contain your C++ source code](#creating-a-module-to-contain-your-c-source-code) in your project directory

> Add the C++ module as a Swift Compiler flag in your project's directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the C++ module to the include path and enable C++ interop:
```

- Navigate to your project directory 
- In the`Targets` navigate to `Build Settings` -> `Swift Compiler - Custom Flags`
- Under `Other Swift Flags` add your search path to the C++ module with the `-I` prefix to import

```
//Add to Other Swift Flags
-I./ProjectName/Cxx
```

- In the`Project` navigate to `Build Settings` -> `Swift Compiler - Custom Flags`

> - - Under `Other Swift Flags` add your search path to the C++ module with the `-I` prefix to import, and `-Xfrontend -enable-cxx-interop` 

Reviewer: This is good for enabling interop, but we can actually use the import paths section instead of `-I`. So you can say something like:
- In the`Project` navigate to `Build Settings` -> `Swift Compiler - Search Paths`
- Under `Import Paths` add your search path to the C++ module (i.e, `./ProjectName/Cxx`).

Author: Cool cool

```
//Add to Other Swift Flags
-I./ProjectName/Cxx

-I./CxxIOSInterop/Cxx 
-Xfrontend -enable-cxx-interop
```

> 

Reviewer: It looks like there's some duplication here.

- In your Package Manifest, you need to configure the Swift target's dependencies and compiler flags
- In this example the name of the package is `Cxx_Interop`
- Swift code will be in `Sources/Cxx_Interop` called `main.swift`
- C++ source code follows the example shown in [Creating a Module to contain your C++ source code](#creating-a-module-to-contain-your-c-source-code)
- Under targets, add the name of your C++ module and the directory containing the Swift code as a target.
- In the target defining your Swift target, add a`dependencies` to the C++ Module, the `path`, `source`, and `swiftSettings` with `unsafeFlags` with the source to the C++ Module, and enable `-enable-cxx-interop`

```
//In Package Manifest

import PackageDescription

let package = Package(
    name: "Cxx_Interop",
    platforms: [.macOS(.v12)],
    products: [
        .library(
            name: "Cxx",
            targets: ["Cxx"]),
        .library(
            name: "Cxx_Interop",
            targets: ["Cxx_Interop"]),
    ],
    targets: [
        .target(
            name: "Cxx",
            dependencies: []
        ),

>         //Executable is only needed for using a main.swift, otherwise it can just be a .target

Reviewer: Nit: `executableTarget` is only needed for...

        .executableTarget(
            name: "Cxx_Interop",
            dependencies: ["Cxx"],
            path: "./Sources/Cxx_Interop",
            sources: [ "main.swift" ],
            swiftSettings: [.unsafeFlags([
                "-I", "Sources/Cxx",
                "-Xfrontend", "-enable-cxx-interop",
            ])]
        ),
    ]
)

```

- We are now able to import our C++ Module into our swift code, and import the package into existing projects

```
//In main.swift

import Cxx

public struct Cxx_Interop {
    
    public func callCxxFunction(n: Int32) -> Int32 {
        return cxxFunction(n: n)
    }
}

print(Cxx_Interop().callCxxFunction(n: 7))
//outputs: 7

```

## Building with CMake
- After creating your project follow the steps [Creating a Module to contain your C++ source code](#creating-a-module-to-contain-your-c-source-code)
- Create a `CMakeLists.txt` file and configure for your project

> - In`add_library` invoke `cxx-support` with the path to the C++ implementation file

Reviewer: nit: space.
